articles.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Articles
subtitle: Learn how to use Bitcoin related tools
#thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: https://bitcoiner.guide/assets/img/sharearticles.png
tags: [node, wallet, security, privacy, nokyc]
---

<p align="center">
  <a href="#wallets">Wallets</a> |
  <a href="#nodes">Nodes</a> |
  <a href="#security">Security</a> |
  <a href="#privacy">Privacy</a> |
  <a href="#no-kyc">no-KYC</a> |
  <a href="#misc">Misc</a>
  <br><br>
</p>


# Wallets

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Stack Duo 101](/stack-duo)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on using Stack Duo mobile wallet  |  16 May 2023            |
| [Passport 101](/passport)   |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Passport HWW  | 07 Jul 2021                |
| [Specter Desktop 101](/specter)   | Basic explainer on setting up and using Specter desktop wallet  | Updated 13 Apr 2021                |
| [Sparrow Wallet 101](/sparrow)   |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Sparrow desktop wallet  | Updated 21 May 2021                     |
| [Sentinel 101](/sentinel)        | Basic explainer on setting up and using Sentinel 'watch only' wallet | 01 Sep 2020                      |
| [Blue Wallet 101](/blue)         |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Blue Wallet             | 11 Jul 2020                            |
| [Zap 101](/zap)                  |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Zap                     | 06 Jul 2020                            |
| [Coldcard 101](/coldcard)        |  Basic explainer on setting up and using a Coldcard              | 03 Jul 2020                            |
| [Zeus 101](/zeus)                |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Zeus                    | 12 Jun 2020                            |
| [OpenDime 101](/opendime)         |  Basic explainer on setting up and using an an Opendime          | 11 Jun 2020                            |
| [Samourai Wallet 101](/samourai) |  Basic explainer of Samourai Wallet                              | 01 May 2020                            |

<br/>

# Nodes

| Name                             | Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Migrating your Samourai Wallet to RoninDojo](/rdmigrate) |  Connect or migrating Samourai Wallet to RoninDojo guide | 30 Jul 2020              |
| [RoninDojo 101](/ronindojo)      |  Feature breakdown of RoninDojo                                  | 07 Jun 2020                            |
| [Rescanning XPUBs using DMT](/dojo) |   Guide to restore balances using Dojo Maintenance Tool          | 24 May 2020                            |
| [myNode 101](/mynode)            |  Feature breakdown of myNode                                     | 16 May 2020                            |

<br/>

# Security

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Verifying Software 101](/verifysoftware) |   Guide to help users verify the software they download | 10 Jan 2021                            |
| [10 ways to lose your bitcoin](/lostbitcoin) |  Tips for newcomers to avoid losing their bitcoin    | 12 Dec 2020                            |

<br/>

# Privacy

| Name                             | Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [CalyxOS 101](/calyxos) | CalyxOS installation guide               | 11 Mar 2021                            |
| [PayNyms 101](/paynym) |  Explainer on BIP47 PayNyms          | 02 Mar 2021                            |
| [Whirlpool + Postmix FAQ](/whirlpool) |  Whirlpool explainer and FAQ          | 08 Aug 2020                            |
| [Bitcoin Privacy Tips](/privacytips) |  Privacy tips for interacting with Bitcoin | 26 Jun 2020         |
| [Your First Mobile Coinjoin](/mobilecoinjoin) |  Learn to use Whirlpool on mobile             | 20 Jun 2020                            |
| [Deal With Coinjoin Change Outputs](/doxxic) |  Dealing with toxic change | 15 Jun 2020                   |
| [Coinjoin to Cold Implications](/csimplications) |  Considerations when spending to cold storage | 03 May 2020 |

<br/>

# no-KYC 

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Peach Bitcoin Mobile P2P Exchange](/peach)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on using Peach Bitcoin  |  29 May 2023         |
| [RoboSats Lightning P2P Exchange](/robosats)   |  Guide for purchasing P2P sats via Lightning using RoboSats  |  22 May 2023            |
| [How To Buy Bitcoin On Bisq](https://www.athena-alpha.com/how-to-buy-bitcoin-on-bisq/)   |  Guide by [Athena Alpha](https://twitter.com/athena_alpha_) on using Bisq  |  12 May 2023            |
| [Creating A Buy Offer On  Hodl Hodl](/hodlhodloffer)  |   Guide for creating a buy offer using Hodl Hodl | 11 Sep 2020               |
| [10 Steps To Your First no-KYC Bitcoin (Hodl Hodl)](/hodlhodl)    |  Guide for purchasing bitcoin on Hodl Hodl | 04 Aug 2020         |
| [10 Steps To Your First no-KYC Bitcoin](/bisq) |  Guide for purchasing bitcoin on Bisq      | 08 Jun 2020                            |

<br/>

# Misc 

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [How To Fork an Open Source Project](/fork)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on contributing to FOSS projects  | 23 May 2023 |

Commit message:

Update articles.md with various security and privacy links

articles.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Articles
subtitle: Learn how to use Bitcoin related tools
#thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: https://bitcoiner.guide/assets/img/sharearticles.png
tags: [node, wallet, security, privacy, nokyc]
---

<p align="center">
  <a href="#wallets">Wallets</a> |
  <a href="#nodes">Nodes</a> |
  <a href="#security">Security</a> |
  <a href="#privacy">Privacy</a> |
  <a href="#no-kyc">no-KYC</a> |
  <a href="#misc">Misc</a>
  <br><br>
</p>


# Wallets

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Stack Duo 101](/stack-duo)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on using Stack Duo mobile wallet  |  16 May 2023            |
| [Passport 101](/passport)   |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Passport HWW  | 07 Jul 2021                |
| [Specter Desktop 101](/specter)   | Basic explainer on setting up and using Specter desktop wallet  | Updated 13 Apr 2021                |
| [Sparrow Wallet 101](/sparrow)   |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Sparrow desktop wallet  | Updated 21 May 2021                     |
| [Sentinel 101](/sentinel)        | Basic explainer on setting up and using Sentinel 'watch only' wallet | 01 Sep 2020                      |
| [Blue Wallet 101](/blue)         |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Blue Wallet             | 11 Jul 2020                            |
| [Zap 101](/zap)                  |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Zap                     | 06 Jul 2020                            |
| [Coldcard 101](/coldcard)        |  Basic explainer on setting up and using a Coldcard              | 03 Jul 2020                            |
| [Zeus 101](/zeus)                |  Basic explainer on setting up and using Zeus                    | 12 Jun 2020                            |
| [OpenDime 101](/opendime)         |  Basic explainer on setting up and using an an Opendime          | 11 Jun 2020                            |
| [Samourai Wallet 101](/samourai) |  Basic explainer of Samourai Wallet                              | 01 May 2020                            |

<br/>

# Nodes

| Name                             | Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Migrating your Samourai Wallet to RoninDojo](/rdmigrate) |  Connect or migrating Samourai Wallet to RoninDojo guide | 30 Jul 2020              |
| [RoninDojo 101](/ronindojo)      |  Feature breakdown of RoninDojo                                  | 07 Jun 2020                            |
| [Rescanning XPUBs using DMT](/dojo) |   Guide to restore balances using Dojo Maintenance Tool          | 24 May 2020                            |
| [myNode 101](/mynode)            |  Feature breakdown of myNode                                     | 16 May 2020                            |

<br/>

# Security

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Verifying Software 101](/verifysoftware) |   Guide to help users verify the software they download | 10 Jan 2021                            |
| [Beginners Guide To Bitcoin Security](https://www.athena-alpha.com/bitcoin-security/) |   Security guide for true Bitcoin Beginners | 22 Mar 2023                            |
| [10 ways to lose your bitcoin](/lostbitcoin) |  Tips for newcomers to avoid losing their bitcoin    | 12 Dec 2020                            |

<br/>

# Privacy

| Name                             | Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [CalyxOS 101](/calyxos) | CalyxOS installation guide               | 11 Mar 2021                            |
| [PayNyms 101](/paynym) |  Explainer on BIP47 PayNyms          | 02 Mar 2021                            |
| [Whirlpool + Postmix FAQ](/whirlpool) |  Whirlpool explainer and FAQ          | 08 Aug 2020                            |
| [Bitcoin Privacy Tips](/privacytips) |  Privacy tips for interacting with Bitcoin | 26 Jun 2020         |
| [Beginners Guide To Bitcoin Privacy](https://www.athena-alpha.com/bitcoin-privacy/) |  Privacy guide for true Bitcoin Beginners | 25 Jan 2023         |
| [Your First Mobile Coinjoin](/mobilecoinjoin) |  Learn to use Whirlpool on mobile             | 20 Jun 2020                            |
| [Deal With Coinjoin Change Outputs](/doxxic) |  Dealing with toxic change | 15 Jun 2020                   |
| [Coinjoin to Cold Implications](/csimplications) |  Considerations when spending to cold storage | 03 May 2020 |

<br/>

# no-KYC 

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [Peach Bitcoin Mobile P2P Exchange](/peach)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on using Peach Bitcoin  |  29 May 2023         |
| [RoboSats Lightning P2P Exchange](/robosats)   |  Guide for purchasing P2P sats via Lightning using RoboSats  |  22 May 2023            |
| [How To Buy Bitcoin On Bisq](https://www.athena-alpha.com/how-to-buy-bitcoin-on-bisq/)   |  Guide by [Athena Alpha](https://twitter.com/athena_alpha_) on using Bisq  |  12 May 2023            |
| [Creating A Buy Offer On  Hodl Hodl](/hodlhodloffer)  |   Guide for creating a buy offer using Hodl Hodl | 11 Sep 2020               |
| [10 Steps To Your First no-KYC Bitcoin (Hodl Hodl)](/hodlhodl)    |  Guide for purchasing bitcoin on Hodl Hodl | 04 Aug 2020         |
| [10 Steps To Your First no-KYC Bitcoin](/bisq) |  Guide for purchasing bitcoin on Bisq      | 08 Jun 2020                            |

<br/>

# Misc 

| Name                             |  Description                                                     |  Published                             |
|----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| [How To Fork an Open Source Project](/fork)   |  Guest post by [Bitlevi](https://twitter.com/Bit_levi) on contributing to FOSS projects  | 23 May 2023 |
