contribute.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Contribute
subtitle: Help keep the site up to date
#thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: https://bitcoiner.guide/assets/img/share.png
tags: [books, test]
---


I do my best to keep this site current and up to date, but Bitcoin moves pretty fast! Help to ensure the site is as accurate and informative as possible is hugely appreciated! 

You don't need to be a shadowy super coder to help. Here are some ways in which you can get involved:

- Request a guide or topic that you think others might find useful
- Passionate about a certain Bitcoin tool/topic but don't have your own site? I'd be happy to host your writing if it's appropriate
- Translate an article or page into your native language
- Update any info on the site that is no longer accurate
- Fix typos or grammatical errors

### How to get involved

- **Non-technical users** - Create a simple GitHub [issue](https://github.com/BitcoinQnA/Bitcoiner.Guide/issues). *Please provide as much detail as possible about the change or update required*.
- **Technical users** - Fork the project and complete the update via a [Pull Request](https://github.com/BitcoinQnA/Bitcoiner.Guide/pulls). *This is the preferred option as it takes far less of my own resources*.

Commit message:

Change 'next' to vote and other small fixes

contribute.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Contribute
subtitle: Help keep the site up to date
#thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: https://bitcoiner.guide/assets/img/share.png
tags: [books, test]
---


I do my best to keep this site current and up to date, but Bitcoin moves pretty fast! Help to ensure the site is as accurate and informative as possible is hugely appreciated! 

The easiest way to get involved is to [cast your vote](/vote) on the next guide to be written for the site. The project or topic with the most sats backing them at the deadline wins! 

Outside of that, you don't need to be a shadowy super coder to help. Here are some ways in which you can get involved:

- Request a guide or topic that you think others might find useful
- Passionate about a certain Bitcoin tool/topic but don't have your own site? I'd be happy to host your writing if it's appropriate
- Translate an article or page into your native language
- Update any info on the site that is no longer accurate
- Fix typos or grammatical errors

### How to get involved

- **Non-technical users** - Create a simple GitHub [issue](https://github.com/BitcoinQnA/Bitcoiner.Guide/issues). *Please provide as much detail as possible about the change or update required*.
- **Technical users** - Fork the project and complete the update via a [Pull Request](https://github.com/BitcoinQnA/Bitcoiner.Guide/pulls). *This is the preferred option as it takes far less of my own resources*.
